Docs: Document caching mechanisms (#52514)
vercel/next.js: docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/04-caching/index.mdx

| --------------------- | --------------------------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Rendering Cache       | React Components                  | Server (CDN)        | Reduce the rendering cost.                      | Persistent or revalidate lifetime                                                                                  | Route Segment Config, and Dynamic Functions                                  |
| Router Cache          | Rendered Server Component Payload | Client (in-memory)  | Improve navigation performance.                 | Single Session (cleared by hard navigation or refresh), or 30s for dynamic routes, and 5 minutes for static routes | <Link>, router.prefetch, router.refresh, revalidatePath, revalidateTag       |

> | Data Cache            | Result of data requests           | Server (CDN)        | Store data across user requests and deployments | Persistent or revalidate lifetime                                                                                  | fetch.cache, fetch.revalidate, unstable_cache, revalidatePath, revalidateTag |

Reviewer: I recognize that there is not only `CDN` but also `in-memory` depending on the conditions. I couldn't found a way to actually behave this, but [in this lines](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/blob/7ce663ed52a881ffb3fa38e50ff5d6e135293fbf/packages/next/src/server/lib/incremental-cache/file-system-cache.ts#L40-L59) and [this lines](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/blob/7ce663ed52a881ffb3fa38e50ff5d6e135293fbf/packages/next/src/server/lib/incremental-cache/fetch-cache.ts#L75-L94) here shows it.I apologize if I'm wrong.

```suggestion
| Data Cache            | Result of data requests           | Server (CDN or in-memory)        | Store data across user requests and deployments | Persistent or revalidate lifetime                                                                                  | fetch.cache, fetch.revalidate, unstable_cache, revalidatePath, revalidateTag |
```

Reviewer 2: I think the default rendering cache and data cache store data in the file system. In-memory cache is mainly used to optimize the file system cache, and the typical application developer would not use it directly. And CDNs are used in special environments such as Vercel.
Therefore, I think it would be better to write "Server (file system)" there.

Reviewer 2: @delbaoliveira I think these comments have already resolved as they were updated to just "Servers" (i.e.  omit the details).

For cases where `fetch` is not suitable (e.g. database clients, CMS clients, or GraphQL), you can use React's `cache` function to manually deduplicate requests. Although Next.js uses `cache` to memoize data requests on the server, the `cache` function can also be used to memoize any function on the server or the client.

> **Memoization vs. Deduplication**:
>
> You may see the terms **memoization** and **deduplication** being used interchangeably. Memoization is a general term that applies storing the return values of **any function** in-memory, whereas request deduplication applies specifically to **data requests**.

#### Duration

The cache lasts the lifetime of a server request until the rendering pass completes.

#### Revalidating

Since the cache is cleared after each request, there is no need to revalidate the cache.

#### Opting out

> There's no way to opt out of request deduplication for `fetch` requests.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this information is necessary, but it is possible to opt out by setting the `signal` option.

```jsx
// Opt out of deduplication
const { signal } = new AbortController()
fetch(`https://...`, { signal })
```

Reviewer 3: Yeah this should be mentioned 👍

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
To opt-out of memoization in `fetch` you can pass an `AbortController` `signal` to the request.

```js
const { signal } = new AbortController()
fetch(url, { signal })
```

There is no opt-out for the `cache` function as that has to be intentionally added to functions.
````

#### Duration and Invalidation

The cache is stored in the browser's temporary memory. Two factors determine how long the router cache lasts:

- **Session**: The cache persists across [soft navigations](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#soft-navigation). However, it's cleared on page refresh or [hard navigation](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#hard-navigation).
- **Automatic invalidation period**: The cache of an individual segment is automatically invalidated after a specific time. The duration depends on whether the route is [statically rendered](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/static-and-dynamic-rendering#static-rendering-default) or [dynamically rendered](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/static-and-dynamic-rendering#dynamic-rendering):
  - **Dynamic routes**: 30 seconds
  - **Static routes**: 5 minutes

While a page refresh or hard navigation will clear **all** cached segments, the automatic invalidation period only affects the individual segment from the time it was last accessed or created.

#### Opting out

> It's not possible to opt out of the Router Cache. However, you can opt out of prefetching by setting the `prefetch` prop of the `<Link>` component to `false`. The routes will still be cached when visited.

Reviewer 4: it will only be cached for 30s in that scenario (when using false)

Author: Thank you!

## Cache Interactions

When configuring the different caching mechanisms, it's important to understand how they interact with each other:

### Data and Render

- Invalidating or opting out of the Render Cache **does not** affect the Data Cache. This means you can dynamically render a route that has both cached and uncached data. This is useful when most of your page uses cached data (static), but you have a few components that rely on data that needs to be fetched at request time (dynamic). You can dynamically render without worrying about the performance impact of re-fetching all the data.
- Revalidating the Data Cache **will** invalidate the Render Cache, as the render output depends on data.

### Data and Router

> - Revalidating the Data Cache **will not** immediately invalidate the Router Cache due to the [automatic invalidation period](#duration-and-invalidation). This means the Router Cache will continue to serve the previous payload until a hard navigation/refresh, or the automatic invalidation period has elapsed.

Reviewer 4: that is correct, unless they revalidate as part of an action

Author: Thank you!

## Overview

{/* TO DO: Diagram showing how caching mechanisms come into play in the request lifecycle, going from initial request, to server, to response, to router cache, to subsequent navigation with new request. */}

Here's a high-level overview of the different caching mechanisms in Next.js and their purpose:

| Mechanism                     | What is cached?                | Where is it cached? | Why is it cached?                                             | Duration                        |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| [React Cache](#react-cache)   | Return values of functions     | Server              | Reduce data store calls and share data between route segments | Per-request lifecycle           |
| [Data Cache](#data-cache)     | Return values of data requests | Server              | Store data across user requests and deployments               | Persistent (can be revalidated) |

> | [Render Cache](#render-cache) | Rendered React Components      | Server              | Reduce rendering cost and improve performance                 | Persistent (can be revalidated) |

Reviewer 3: Let's use "Route Cache" for this concept, it reflects the reality better.

Under `What is cached` we can say `Rendered HTML and RSC payload`

| [Router Cache](#router-cache) | Route Segments (RSC Payload)   | Client              | Reduce server requests and improve navigation experience      | User session or time-based.     |

## How caching works

### React Cache

> React's `cache` function allows you to **memoize** the return value of a function, saving the result to memory. This means you can call the same function multiple times while only executing it once during a render pass.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
React's `cache` function allows you to **memoize** the return value of a function, saving the result to memory. This means you can call the same function multiple times while only executing it once when rendering a React tree.
```

Author: Nice, it's clearer.

> In Next.js, the [`fetch` API](#fetch) uses `cache` to **deduplicate** requests for the same data. Similar to memoization, request deduplication is an optimization that takes **multiple** requests for the same data and only makes a **single** request to the data source. This is done by storing the result of the first request in a temporary server-side cache, and returning the cached result for subsequent requests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In React Server Components, the [`fetch` API](#fetch) uses an implementation similar to `cache` to **memoize** requests for the same url and options. This means you can call the same fetch multiple times while only executing it once when rendering a React tree when the url and options are the same.
```

{/* Diagram */}

> Since `fetch` requests are automatically deduplicated, you can fetch data in the components that need it without props drilling and worrying about the performance impact of making multiple requests for the same data. Deduplication applies to `fetch` requests in `generateMetadata`, `generateStaticParams`, Layouts, Pages, and other Server Components.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since `fetch` requests are automatically memoized, you can fetch data in the components that need it without props drilling and worrying about the performance impact of making multiple requests for the same data. Memoization applies to `fetch` requests in `generateMetadata`, `generateStaticParams`, Layouts, Pages, and other Server Components.
```

> For cases where `fetch` is not suitable (e.g. database clients, CMS clients, or GraphQL), you can use React's `cache` function to manually deduplicate requests. Although Next.js uses `cache` to memoize data requests on the server, the `cache` function can also be used to memoize any function on the server or the client.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For cases where `fetch` is not suitable (e.g. database clients, CMS clients, or GraphQL), you can use React's `cache` function to manually memoize functions.
```

> > **Memoization vs. Deduplication**:
> >
> > You may see the terms **memoization** and **deduplication** being used interchangeably. Memoization is a general term that applies storing the return values of **any function** in-memory, whereas request deduplication applies specifically to **data requests**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

#### Duration

> The cache lasts the lifetime of a server request until the rendering pass completes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The cache lasts the lifetime of a server request or static rendering until the rendering the React tree completes.
```

#### Revalidating

> Since the cache is cleared after each request, there is no need to revalidate the cache.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
React's `cache` function is specifically for memoizing the return values of functions when rendering the React tree. Since the memoization only applies to rendering the React tree and is not shared across requests there is no revalidation. 
```

#### Opting out

There's no way to opt out of request deduplication for `fetch` requests.

### Data Cache

Next.js has a built-in Data Cache that stores the result of data requests across user requests and deployments.

> By default, data requests that use `fetch` are automatically cached at build time. This is possible because Next.js extends the native `fetch` API to allow each request on the server to set its own persistent caching semantics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, data requests that use `fetch` are automatically cached. This is possible because Next.js extends the native `fetch` API to allow each request on the server to set its own persistent caching semantics.
```

When fetching data on the server, a `fetch` request first checks the Data Cache for a cached response. If a cached response is found, it is returned immediately. If not, the request is made to the data source, and the response is cached.

> **Static vs. Dynamic Data Fetching**:
>
> You may see the terms **Static Data Fetching** and **Dynamic Data Fetching** being used. Static Data Fetching refers to cached data requests (default), whereas Dynamic Data Fetching refers to data that is fetched on every request, at runtime.

#### Duration

The Data Cache is persistent across user requests and deployments unless you revalidate or opt-out.

#### Revalidating

Revalidation is the process of purging the Data Cache and re-fetching the latest data. This is useful when your data changes and you want to ensure you show the latest information.

Cached data can be revalidated in two ways:

> - **Time-based revalidation**: Automatically revalidate data after a certain amount of time has passed. This is useful for data that changes infrequently and freshness is not as critical. Time-based revalidation can be configured with the [Route Segment Config options](#segment-config-options) or per individual [`fetch` request](#fetchoptionsnextrevalidate).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Time-based revalidation**: Automatically revalidate data after a certain amount of time has passed. This is useful for data that changes infrequently and freshness is not as critical. Time-based revalidation can be configured with the [Route Segment Config options](#segment-config-options) or per individual [`fetch` request](#fetchoptionsnextrevalidate). It uses stale-while-revalidate semantics.
```

The stale-while-revalidate semantics need to be expanded on in that line though.

> - **On-demand revalidation**: Manually revalidate data based on an event (e.g. form submission). On-demand revalidation can use a tag-based or path-based approach to revalidate groups of data at once. This is useful for when you want to ensure the latest data is always shown. On-demand revalidation can be configured with the [`revalidateTag`](#fetchoptionsnexttag-and-revalidatetag) and [`revalidatePath`](#revalidatepath) APIs.

Reviewer 3: On-demand revalidation removes the entry from the cache, the first time the request is executed again this will cause a cache miss and thus populate the Data Cache with the new result. So there is no stale-while-revalidate behavior in this case, this is to ensure consistency.

Author: ty, added section on how on-demand revalidation works in the data fetching page.

#### Opting out

> For individual data fetches, you can opt out of caching by setting the [`cache`](#fetchoptionscache) option to `no-store`. This means data will be fetched dynamically, on each request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For individual data fetches, you can opt out of caching by setting the [`cache`](#fetchoptionscache) option to `no-store`. This means data will be fetched whenever the fetch is called.
```

Let's move away from saying `on each request` because the layering of caches it could be the entire page becomes static, e.g. when setting force-static, then it would only get called at build time.
Maybe we also need to explain here that no-store opts the route out of the route cache.

```jsx
// Opt out of caching
fetch(`https://...`, { cache: 'no-store' })
```

Alternatively, you can also use the [Route Segment Config options](#segment-config-options) to opt out of caching for **all** data requests in a route segment.

> **Vercel Data Cache**
>
> If your Next.js application is deployed to Vercel, we recommend reading the [Vercel Data Cache](https://vercel.com/docs/infrastructure/data-cache) documentation for a better understanding of Vercel specific features.

> ### Render Cache

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Route Cache
```

Next.js automatically caches the rendered result of React Components on the server at build time. This is an optimization that allows you to skip rendering components on the server on every request, and instead directly send the cached result to the client, resulting in faster page loads.

> **Related terms**:
>
> - The terms **Automatic Static Optimization**, **Static Site Generation**, or **Static Rendering** might be also be used interchangeably to refer to the process of rendering and caching parts of your application code on the server at build time.

To understand how the Render Cache works, it's helpful to look at how React handles rendering, and how Next.js caches the result:

#### 1. React Rendering on the Server

On the server, Next.js uses React's APIs to orchestrate rendering. This process is split into three stages:

1. React renders Server Components into a special data format, optimized for streaming, called the **React Server Component Payload**.

> 2. Next.js compiles, bundles, and code-splits the **JavaScript instructions** for rendering Client Components on the client.

Reviewer 3: In this case Next.js would have already compiled / bundled / code split the JS and that metadata was passed to the Server Components renderer. So I think you can remove this step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> 3. Next.js uses the React Payload and JavaScript instructions to pre-render **HTML** on the server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Next.js passes the React Server Components Payload to React to render to **HTML** on the server.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: After explaining the two phases we need to mention this happens using streaming, it's not "wait for 1 to complete, then do 2", it's a more continuous process, when a chunk of 1 is done it emits, pipes to 2

Reviewer 3: And then 2 pipes to the response (or a file during build)

Author: Ah, thank you for clarifying! I suspected this was the case, but wasn't sure 🤩

> **What is React Server Component Payload?**
>

> > The React Payload is a compact string representation of the React Component tree. It's used by React on the client to update the DOM. The React Payload contains:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> The React Server Components Payload is a compact string representation of the React Component tree. It's used by React on the client to update the DOM. The React Server Components Payload contains:
```

I think it's fine to shorten to `RSC Payload` but `React Payload` is not ideal.

>
> - The rendered result of Server Components
> - Placeholders for where Client Components should be rendered on the client

> > - Any serialized props passed to these Client Components

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> - Any props passed from a Server Component to a Client Component, these are serialized
```

> > - References to the JavaScript instructions needed to render the Client Components

Reviewer 3: The placeholder for where to render and the object that shows which JS file to load and such is the same object.

> > - Metadata tags, such as references to stylesheets

Reviewer 3: This doesn't have to be called out in particular as for the HTML case everything is part of the "rendered result of server components"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

>
> To learn more, see the [React Rendering](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/react-components) documentation.

#### 2. Next.js Caching on the Server (Render Cache)

> On the server, at build time, Next.js caches the React Server Component Payload, Client Component JavaScript, and pre-rendered HTML.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On the server, at build time, Next.js caches the React Server Component Payload, Client Component JavaScript, and rendered HTML.
```

> **Memoization vs. Deduplication**:
>
> You may see the terms **memoization** and **deduplication** being used interchangeably. Memoization is a general term that applies storing the return values of **any function** in-memory, whereas request deduplication applies specifically to **data requests**.

#### Duration

The cache lasts the lifetime of a server request until the rendering pass completes.

#### Revalidating

Since the cache is cleared after each request, there is no need to revalidate the cache.

#### Opting out

To opt-out of memoization in `fetch` you can pass an `AbortController` `signal` to the request.

```js
const { signal } = new AbortController()
fetch(url, { signal })
```

There is no opt-out for the `cache` function as that has to be intentionally added to functions.

### Data Cache

Next.js has a built-in Data Cache that stores the result of data requests across user requests and deployments.

By default, data requests that use `fetch` are automatically cached at build time. This is possible because Next.js extends the native `fetch` API to allow each request on the server to set its own persistent caching semantics.

> You can use the [`cache`](#fetchoptionscache) and [`next.revalidate`](#fetchoptionsnextrevalidate) options of `fetch` to configure the caching behavior. In the browser, `cache` indicates how a fetch request will interact with the browser's HTTP cache, and with Next.js, the `cache` option also indicates how a server-side fetch request will interact with the framework's persistent HTTP cache.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the [`cache`](#fetchoptionscache) and [`next.revalidate`](#fetchoptionsnextrevalidate) options of `fetch` to configure the caching behavior. In the browser, `cache` indicates how a fetch request will interact with the browser's HTTP cache, and with Next.js, the `cache` option also indicates how a server-side fetch request will interact with the framework's Data Cache.
```

For consistency as it's mentioned as Data Cache elsewhere.

#### 1. React Rendering on the Server

On the server, Next.js uses React's APIs to orchestrate rendering. This process is split into three stages:

1. React renders Server Components into a special data format, optimized for streaming, called the **React Server Component Payload**.
2. Next.js compiles, bundles, and code-splits the **JavaScript instructions** for rendering Client Components on the client.
3. Next.js uses the React Payload and JavaScript instructions to pre-render **HTML** on the server.

> **What is React Server Component Payload?**
>
> The React Payload is a compact string representation of the React Component tree. It's used by React on the client to update the DOM. The React Payload contains:
>
> - The rendered result of Server Components
> - Placeholders for where Client Components should be rendered on the client
> - Any serialized props passed to these Client Components
> - References to the JavaScript instructions needed to render the Client Components
> - Metadata tags, such as references to stylesheets
>
> To learn more, see the [React Rendering](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/react-components) documentation.

> #### 2. Next.js Caching on the Server (Render Cache)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### 2. Next.js Caching on the Server (Route Cache)
```

On the server, at build time, Next.js caches the React Server Component Payload, Client Component JavaScript, and pre-rendered HTML.

#### 3. Next.js Caching on the Client (Router Cache)

At request time, the React Server Component Payload is stored in the client-side [Router Cache](#router-cache) - a separate in-memory cache, split by individual routes. This Router Cache is used to improve the navigation experience by prefetching.

#### 4. React Hydration and Reconciliation on the Client

Then, on the client:

1. The HTML is used to show an initial preview for Client and Server Components.

> 2. The React payload is used to reconcile the Client and Server Component trees, and update the DOM.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. The React Server Components Payload is used to reconcile the Client and Server Component trees, and update the DOM.
```

3. The JavaScript instructions are used to [hydrate](https://react.dev/reference/react-dom/client/hydrateRoot) Client Components.

> #### 5. Subsequent Navigations

Reviewer 3: For this section we'll have to explain the caching behavior with/without prefetch and the static/dynamic behavior.

> On subsequent navigations or during prefetching, Next.js will check if the React Payload is stored in Router Cache. If so, it will skip sending a new request to the server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On subsequent navigations or during prefetching, Next.js will check if the React Server Components Payload is stored in Router Cache. If so, it will skip sending a new request to the server.
```

> If the route segments are not cached, Next.js will fetch the render output from the Render Cache on the server, and populate the Router Cache on the client.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the route segments are not cached, Next.js will fetch the React Server Components Payload from the server, and populate the Router Cache on the client.

```

#### Duration

> By default, the Render Cache is persistent. This means that the render output is cached across user requests.

Reviewer 3: @feedthejim can you help write down the exact behavior for the router cache.

#### Invalidation

There are two ways you can **invalidate** the Render Cache:

- **Revalidating Data** This will invalidate the [Data Cache](#data-cache), which in turn will re-render components on the server, and cache the new render output.

> - **Redeploying**: Unlike the data cache, which persists across deployments, the Render Cache is cleared on new deployments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Redeploying**: Unlike the Data Cache, which persists across deployments, the Render Cache is cleared on new deployments.
```

#### Opting out

You can opt out of the Render Cache, or in other words, dynamically render components at request time, by:

> - **Using a [Dynamic Function](#dynamic-functions)**: This will dynamically render components at request time, but may reuse cached data, if any.

Reviewer 3: Dynamic function or "dynamic" segment config

> - **Opting out of the [Data Cache](#data-cache)**: This will fetch data on every request, which in turn will skip the Render Cache.

Reviewer 3: Would be good to clarify this as adding `cache: 'no-store'` to a fetch, would be easier to understand than opting out of the data cache skipping the Route Cache.

> - **Using the route segment config options `dynamic = force-dynamic` or `revalidate = 0`**: This will skip the Render Cache and the Data Cache. Meaning components will be rendered and data fetched on every request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Using the route segment config options `dynamic = force-dynamic` or `revalidate = 0`**: This will skip the Render Cache and the Data Cache. Meaning components will be rendered and data fetched on every request to the server.
```

> **Static vs. Dynamic Rendering**:
>

> > You may see the terms **Static Rendering** and **Dynamic Rendering** being used. Static Rendering refers to caching the render output on the server, at build time, whereas Dynamic Rendering refers to rendering components on every request, at runtime.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> You may see the terms **Static Rendering** and **Dynamic Rendering** being used. Static Rendering refers to caching the render output on the server, at build time, to pre-fill the cache, whereas Dynamic Rendering refers to rendering components on every request, at runtime.
```

### Router Cache

Next.js has an in-memory client-side cache that stores the React Server Component Payload, split by individual routes. This **Router Cache** is used to improve the navigation experience. Next.js [prefetches](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#prefetching) and caches routes that the user is likely going to navigate to (when using the `<Link >` component), and caches visited route segments, enabling [partial rendering](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#partial-rendering). This applies to newly visited routes, as well as backward/forward browser navigation.

> For the user, this results in [soft navigation](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#soft-navigation) (no page reloads) and faster page transitions; it also reduces unnecessary requests to the server.

Reviewer 3: Let's remove the "soft" vs "hard" navigation references. This distinction existed in the first implementation of App Router but it's no longer relevant, instead we have layers of caching.

> **Good to know:**
>
> You may see the Router Cache being referred to as **Client-side Cache** or **Prefetch Cache**. While **Prefetch Cache** refers to the prefetched route segments, **Client-side Cache** refers to the whole Router cache, which includes both visited and prefetched segments.
> This cache specifically applies to Next.js and Server Components, and is different to the browser's [bfcache](https://web.dev/bfcache/).

#### Duration

The cache is stored in the browser's temporary memory. Two factors determine how long the router cache lasts:

- **Session**: The cache persists across [soft navigations](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#soft-navigation). However, it's cleared on page refresh or [hard navigation](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#hard-navigation).

> - **Automatic invalidation period**: The cache of an individual segment is automatically invalidated after a specific time. The duration depends on whether the route is [statically rendered](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/static-and-dynamic-rendering#static-rendering-default) or [dynamically rendered](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/static-and-dynamic-rendering#dynamic-rendering):

Reviewer 3: Maybe "whether the route is in the Full Route Cache or not"

>   - **Dynamic routes**: 30 seconds

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - **Dynamically rendered**: 30 seconds
```

Reviewer 2: Nice! This is what I meant in [my comment](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/52514#discussion_r1262443786).

>   - **Static routes**: 5 minutes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - **Statically rendered**: 5 minutes
```

> While a page refresh or hard navigation will clear **all** cached segments, the automatic invalidation period only affects the individual segment from the time it was last accessed or created.

Reviewer 3: Let's remove the mention of hard navigation, as it means something different in Next.js internally.

#### Invalidation

> **[Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions)** can be used to revalidate data on-demand by path ([`revalidatePath`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidatePath)) or by cache tag ([`revalidateTag`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidateTag)), which in turn will invalidate the Router Cache.

Reviewer 2: In addition, Server Actions can also revalidate the whole Router Cache by updating the cookies.

Also, what do you think about my earlier [comments](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/52514#discussion_r1267938988)?

Reviewer 3: Good catch @koichik 👍

Author: Nice!

#### Opting out

It's not possible to opt out of the Router Cache.

You can opt out of prefetching by setting the `prefetch` prop of the `<Link>` component to `false`. However, this will still temporarily store the route segments for 30s to allow instant navigation between nested segments, such as tab bars.

> The routes will still be cached when visited.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The routes will still be cached when visited for backward/forward navigation.
```

## Cache Interactions

When configuring the different caching mechanisms, it's important to understand how they interact with each other:

### Data and Render

> - Invalidating or opting out of the Render Cache **does not** affect the Data Cache. This means you can dynamically render a route that has both cached and uncached data. This is useful when most of your page uses cached data (static), but you have a few components that rely on data that needs to be fetched at request time (dynamic). You can dynamically render without worrying about the performance impact of re-fetching all the data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Invalidating or opting out of the Render Cache **does not** affect the Data Cache. This means you can dynamically render a route that has both cached and uncached data. This is useful when most of your page uses cached data, but you have a few components that rely on data that needs to be fetched at request time. You can dynamically render without worrying about the performance impact of re-fetching all the data.
```

- Revalidating the Data Cache **will** invalidate the Render Cache, as the render output depends on data.

### Data and Router

> - Revalidating the Data Cache **will not** immediately invalidate the Router Cache due to the [automatic invalidation period](#duration-and-invalidation). This means the Router Cache will continue to serve the previous payload until a hard refresh, or the automatic invalidation period has elapsed.

Author: Nice, I think that's a good way to explain it.

> - To immediately invalidate the Router Cache, you can use [`revalidatePath`](#revalidatepath) or [`revalidateTag`](#fetchoptionsnexttag-and-revalidatetag) in a [Server Action](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions).

Reviewer 3: Or use `router.refresh()`

Author: This would be for uncached data, correct?

| [`revalidatePath`](#revalidatepath)                                 |              | Revalidate            | Revalidate            |             |
| [`const revalidate`](#segment-config-options)                       |              | Revalidate or Opt out | Revalidate or Opt out |             |
| [`const dynamic`](#segment-config-options)                          |              | Cache or Opt out      | Cache or Opt out      |             |
| [`cookies`](#cookies)                                               | Revalidate   | Opt out               |                       |             |
| [`headers`, `useSearchParams`, `searchParams`](#dynamic-functions)  |              | Opt out               |                       |             |
| [`React.cache`](#react-cache-function)                              |              |                       |                       | Cache       |
| [`unstable_cache`](#unstable_cache) (Coming Soon)                   |              |                       |                       |             |

### `<Link>`

> By default, the `<Link>` component automatically prefetches static routes (cached) and adds the React Payload to the Router Cache.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, the `<Link>` component automatically prefetches routes using the Full Route Cache and adds the React Server Components Payload to the Router Cache.
```

To disable prefetching, you can set the `prefetch` prop to `false`. But this will not skip the cache permanently, the route segment will still be cached client-side when the user visits the route.

Learn more about the [`<Link>` component](/docs/app/api-reference/components/link).

### `router.prefetch`

> The `prefetch` option of the `useRouter` hook can be used to manually prefetch a route. This adds the React Payload to the Router cache.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `prefetch` option of the `useRouter` hook can be used to manually prefetch a route. This adds the React Server Components Payload to the Router cache.
```

See the [`useRouter` hook](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-router) API reference.

### `router.refresh`

> The `refresh` option of the `useRouter` hook can be used to manually refresh a route. This completely clears the Router Cache, and makes a new request to the server. `refresh` does not revalidate the Data or Render Cache, it reuses the cached data and rendering result, if it exists.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `refresh` function of the `useRouter` hook can be used to manually refresh a route. This completely clears the Router Cache, and makes a new request to the server for the current page you're on. `refresh` does not revalidate the Data or Full Route Cache, it reuses the cached data or React Server Component Payload if it exists.
```

Author: Good point, on option / function. Let's change it to method. I think that's nicer.

> The rendered result will be reconciled on the client without losing the React state or browser state (e.g. scroll position).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The rendered result will be reconciled on the client while preserving React state and browser state (e.g. scroll position).
```

See the [`useRouter` hook](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-router) API reference.

### `fetch`

> Data returned from `fetch` is automatically cached.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Data returned from `fetch` is automatically cached in the Data Cache.
```

```jsx
// Cached by default. `force-cache` is the default option and can be ommitted.
fetch(`https://...`, { cache: 'force-cache' })
```

See the [`fetch` API Reference](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/fetch) for more options.

> ### `fetch.options.cache`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### `fetch options.cache`
```

You can opt individual `fetch` requests out of data caching by setting the `cache` option to `no-store`:

```jsx
// Opt out of caching
fetch(`https://...`, { cache: 'no-store' })
```

> Since the render output depends on data, using `cache: 'no-store'` will also skip the Render Cache for the route where the `fetch` request is used. That is, the route will be dynamically rendered, but you can still have other cached data requests in the same route.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since the render output depends on data, using `cache: 'no-store'` will also skip the Full Route Cache for the route where the `fetch` request is used. That is, the route will be dynamically rendered, but you can still have other cached data requests in the same route.
```

See the [`fetch` API Reference](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/fetch) for more options.

> ### `fetch.options.next.revalidate`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### `fetch options.next.revalidate`
```

const comments = await getComments() // cache HIT
```

For cases where `fetch` is not suitable (e.g. database clients, CMS clients, or GraphQL), you can use React's `cache` function to manually memoize functions.

> **Memoization vs. Deduplication**:
>
> You may see the terms **memoization** and **deduplication** being used interchangeably. Memoization is a general term that applies storing the return values of **any function** in-memory, whereas request deduplication applies specifically to **data requests**.

#### Duration

The cache lasts the lifetime of a server request or static rendering until rendering the React tree completes.

#### Revalidating

React's `cache` function is used specifically for memoizing the return values of functions. Since the memoization is not shared across requests and only applies during the rendering of the React tree, there is no need for revalidation.

#### Opting out

To opt out of memoization in `fetch` requests, you can pass an `AbortController` `signal` to the request.

```js
const { signal } = new AbortController()
fetch(url, { signal })
```

Since you manually opt into using the `cache` function, there's no way to opt out.

### Data Cache

> Next.js has a built-in Data Cache that stores the result of data requests across user requests and deployments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next.js has a built-in Data Cache that persists the result of data fetches across requests and deployments.
```

By default, data requests that use `fetch` are automatically cached. This is possible because Next.js extends the native `fetch` API to allow each request on the server to set its own persistent caching semantics.

> You can use the [`cache`](#fetchoptionscache) and [`next.revalidate`](#fetchoptionsnextrevalidate) options of `fetch` to configure the caching behavior. In the browser, `cache` indicates how a fetch request will interact with the browser's HTTP cache, and with Next.js, the `cache` option also indicates how a server-side fetch request will interact with the framework's Data Cache.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the [`cache`](#fetchoptionscache) and [`next.revalidate`](#fetchoptionsnextrevalidate) options of `fetch` to configure the caching behavior. In the browser, `cache` indicates how a fetch request will interact with the browser's HTTP cache, and with Next.js, the `cache` option also indicates how a server-side fetch request will interact with the Data Cache.
```

When fetching data on the server, a `fetch` request first checks the Data Cache for a cached response. If a cached response is found, it is returned immediately. If not, the request is made to the data source, and the response is cached.

> **Static vs. Dynamic Data Fetching**:
>
> You may see the terms **Static Data Fetching** and **Dynamic Data Fetching** being used. Static Data Fetching refers to cached data requests (default), whereas Dynamic Data Fetching refers to data that is fetched on every request, at runtime.

#### Duration

> The Data Cache is persistent across user requests and deployments unless you revalidate or opt-out.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Data Cache is persistent across incoming requests and deployments unless you revalidate or opt-out.

```

#### Revalidating

> Revalidation is the process of purging the Data Cache and re-fetching the latest data. This is useful when your data changes and you want to ensure you show the latest information.

Reviewer 3: > and re-fetching the latest data

In case of the time-based revalidate then yes the latest data is re-fetched. In case of on-demand revalidation the cache is only purged, it does not immediately fetch a new result, because these are individual fetches.

Author: We could remove this paragraph, since it's duplicated in the data fetching page. Then, link to it from here. I'll update the description on the data fetching page.

Cached data can be revalidated in two ways:

- **Time-based revalidation**: Automatically revalidate data after a certain amount of time has passed. This is useful for data that changes infrequently and freshness is not as critical. Time-based revalidation can be configured with the [Route Segment Config options](#segment-config-options) or per individual [`fetch` request](#fetchoptionsnextrevalidate).
- **On-demand revalidation**: Manually revalidate data based on an event (e.g. form submission). On-demand revalidation can use a tag-based or path-based approach to revalidate groups of data at once. This is useful for when you want to ensure the latest data is always shown. On-demand revalidation can be configured with the [`revalidateTag`](#fetchoptionsnexttag-and-revalidatetag) and [`revalidatePath`](#revalidatepath) APIs.

> > **Good to know**: Check if your upstream data provider has caching enabled by default. You might need to disable (e.g. `useCdn: false`), otherwise a revalidation won't be able to pull fresh data to update the Data Cache. Caching can occur at a CDN (for an endpoint being requested) when it returns the `Cache-Control` header. ISR on Vercel [persists the cache globally and handles rollbacks](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/incremental-static-regeneration/overview).

Author: Yes, let's remove it.

#### Opting out

For individual data fetches, you can opt out of caching by setting the [`cache`](#fetchoptionscache) option to `no-store`. This means data will be fetched dynamically, on each request.

```jsx
// Opt out of caching
fetch(`https://...`, { cache: 'no-store' })
```

> Alternatively, you can also use the [Route Segment Config options](#segment-config-options) to opt out of caching for **all** data requests in a route segment.

Reviewer 3: Maybe show an example of what this looks like?

Author: Yes, will do!

> **Vercel Data Cache**
>
> If your Next.js application is deployed to Vercel, we recommend reading the [Vercel Data Cache](https://vercel.com/docs/infrastructure/data-cache) documentation for a better understanding of Vercel specific features.

### Full Route Cache

> Next.js automatically caches the rendered result of React Components on the server at build time. This is an optimization that allows you to skip rendering components on the server on every request, and instead directly send the cached result to the client, resulting in faster page loads.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next.js automatically caches the rendered result of React Components on the server at build time unless opted-out. This is an optimization that allows you to skip rendering components on the server on every request, and instead directly send the cached result to the client, resulting in faster page loads.
```

> **Related terms**:
>

> > - The terms **Automatic Static Optimization**, **Static Site Generation**, or **Static Rendering** might be also be used interchangeably to refer to the process of rendering and caching parts of your application code on the server at build time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> - The terms **Automatic Static Optimization**, **Static Site Generation**, or **Static Rendering** might be also be used interchangeably to refer to the process of rendering and caching routes of your application at build time.
```

To understand how the Full Route Cache works, it's helpful to look at how React handles rendering, and how Next.js caches the result:

#### 1. React Rendering on the Server

On the server, Next.js uses React's APIs to orchestrate rendering. This process is split into three stages:

1. React renders Server Components into a special data format, optimized for streaming, called the **React Server Component Payload**.
2. Next.js compiles, bundles, and code-splits the **JavaScript instructions** for rendering Client Components on the client.

> 3. Next.js uses the React Server Component Payload and JavaScript instructions to pre-render **HTML** on the server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Next.js uses the React Server Component Payload and JavaScript instructions to pre-render **HTML** on the server.
```

> > **What is React Server Component Payload?**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **What is the React Server Component Payload?**
```

>

> > The React Server Component Payload is a compact string representation of the React Component tree. It's used by React on the client to update the DOM. The React Server Component Payload contains:

Reviewer 3: It's a binary format nowadays, underlying implementation could change in the future, as long as it's piped to React it'll know how to handle this format.

>
> - The rendered result of Server Components

> > - Placeholders for where Client Components should be rendered on the client

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> - Placeholders for where Client Components should be rendered
```

Let's remove "on the client" as it can fuel confusion around these being rendered to HTML.

> - Any serialized props passed to these Client Components
> - References to the JavaScript instructions needed to render the Client Components
> - Metadata tags, such as references to stylesheets
>
> To learn more, see the [React Rendering](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/react-components) documentation.

#### 2. Next.js Caching on the Server (Full Route Cache)

On the server, at build time, Next.js caches the React Server Component Payload, Client Component JavaScript, and rendered HTML.

#### 3. Next.js Caching on the Client (Router Cache)

> At request time, the React Server Component Payload is stored in the client-side [Router Cache](#router-cache) - a separate in-memory cache, split by individual routes. This Router Cache is used to improve the navigation experience by prefetching.

Reviewer 3: For dynamic segments (`app/blog/[slug]/page.js` for example) it can also cache in the Full Route Cache at request time for paths that weren't known at build time, where generateStaticParams is essentially a seed for the cache, not all entries. This can be configured by setting `export const dynamicParams = false`. When that flag is added only the paths in generateStaticParams will be served, the others 404 / match other routes (i.e. when you have a catch-all route).

Author: Nice, good to know. I'll add that as a note.

#### 4. React Hydration and Reconciliation on the Client

Then, on the client:

1. The HTML is used to show an initial preview for Client and Server Components.
2. The React Server Components Payload is used to reconcile the Client and rendered Server Component trees, and update the DOM.
3. The JavaScript instructions are used to [hydrate](https://react.dev/reference/react-dom/client/hydrateRoot) Client Components.

#### 5. Subsequent Navigations

On subsequent navigations or during prefetching, Next.js will check if the React Server Components Payload is stored in Router Cache. If so, it will skip sending a new request to the server.

If the route segments are not in the cache, Next.js will fetch the React Server Components Payload from the server, and populate the Router Cache on the client.

#### Duration

By default, the Full Route Cache is persistent. This means that the render output is cached across user requests.

#### Invalidation

There are two ways you can **invalidate** the Full Route Cache:

> - **Revalidating Data** This will invalidate the [Data Cache](#data-cache), which in turn will re-render components on the server, and cache the new render output.

Reviewer 3: I think this needs clarification. Asked JJ / Luba: https://vercel.slack.com/archives/C042LHPJ1NX/p1689942513100869

- **Redeploying**: Unlike the Data Cache, which persists across deployments, the Full Route Cache is cleared on new deployments.

#### Opting out

> You can opt out of the Full Route Cache, or in other words, dynamically render components at request time, by:
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can opt out of the Full Route Cache, or in other words, dynamically render components for every incoming request, by:

```

> - **Using a [Dynamic Function](#dynamic-functions)**: This will dynamically render components at request time, but may reuse cached data, if any.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Using a [Dynamic Function](#dynamic-functions)**: This will opt-out the route from the Full Route Cache. The Data Cache will still be used.
```

> - **Opting out of the [Data Cache](#data-cache)**: This will fetch data on every request, which in turn will skip the Full Route Cache.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Opting out of the [Data Cache](#data-cache)**: This will opt-out the route from the Full Route Cache. The data for that particular `fetch` will be fetched for every incoming request. Other `fetch`es that do not opt-out of caching will still be cached in the Data Cache. This allows for a hybrid of static and dynamic data.
```

> This cache specifically applies to Next.js and Server Components, and is different to the browser's [bfcache](https://web.dev/bfcache/).

#### Duration

The cache is stored in the browser's temporary memory. Two factors determine how long the router cache lasts:

- **Session**: The cache persists across [soft navigations](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#soft-navigation). However, it's cleared on page refresh.
- **Automatic invalidation period**: The cache of an individual segment is automatically invalidated after a specific time. The duration depends on whether the route is [statically](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/static-and-dynamic-rendering#static-rendering-default) or [dynamically](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/static-and-dynamic-rendering#dynamic-rendering) rendered:
  - **Dynamically rendered**: 30 seconds
  - **Statically Rendered**: 5 minutes

> While a page refresh will clear **all** cached segments, the automatic invalidation period only affects the individual segment from the time it was last accessed or created.

Reviewer 5: The actual caching behavior is more complex and depends on the `kind` set by the `prefetch` props of the `Link` component.
https://github.com/vercel/next.js/blob/05b2730f55371a7fb16b9afff6d01ad7010a897d/packages/next/src/client/components/router-reducer/get-prefetch-cache-entry-status.ts#L18-L37

Specifically, if **Statically Rendered** and `prefetch={true}`, the cache seems to expire in 30 minutes instead of 5 minutes.

Reviewer 3: To be precise `prefetch={true}` is the default for static rendered routes. Adding `prefetch={true}` to a link that is dynamic rendered will opt-in to the 5 minutes cache. There is no 30 minutes cache, only a 30 seconds cache.

```suggestion
While a page refresh will clear **all** cached segments, the automatic invalidation period only affects the individual segment from the time it was last accessed or created.

By adding `prefetch={true}` or calling `router.prefetch` for a dynamically rendering route you can opt-in to the statically rendered behavior of caching for 5 minutes.
```

#### Invalidation

There are two ways you can invalidate the Router Cache:

- Revalidating data on-demand by path with ([`revalidatePath`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidatePath)) or by cache tag with ([`revalidateTag`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidateTag)) in Server Actions, which in turn will invalidate the Router Cache.

> - Using `cookies.set` or `cookies.delete` in a Server Actions invalidates the Router Cache to prevent routes that use cookies from becoming stale (e.g. authentication).

Reviewer 2: One more thing, it would be nice to mention that the Router Cache is also invalidated when navigating to/from a Pages Router's page, because it is a hard navigation (general term) [as well as `router.refresh()`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/52514/files/36c7e81d8c5cb229b4192191585ccdeff334928c#r1270623774). I was surprised when I first noticed that.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Using `cookies.set` or `cookies.delete` in a Server Actions invalidates the Router Cache to prevent routes that use cookies from becoming stale (e.g. authentication).
- Caling `router.refresh()`
```

Maybe split up the list between apis that can be called on the server and apis that can be called in the browser.

Reviewer 3: The pages router <-> app router part I'd leave out here tbh, it's it's the same as navigating away from the page so I would document that part instead.

| [`const revalidate`](#segment-config-options)                       |              | Revalidate or Opt out | Revalidate or Opt out |             |
| [`const dynamic`](#segment-config-options)                          |              | Cache or Opt out      | Cache or Opt out      |             |
| [`cookies`](#cookies)                                               | Revalidate   | Opt out               |                       |             |
| [`headers`, `useSearchParams`, `searchParams`](#dynamic-functions)  |              | Opt out               |                       |             |
| [`React.cache`](#react-cache-function)                              |              |                       |                       | Cache       |
| [`unstable_cache`](#unstable_cache) (Coming Soon)                   |              |                       |                       |             |

### `<Link>`

By default, the `<Link>` component automatically prefetches routes from the Full Route Cache and adds the React Server Component Payload to the Router Cache.

> To disable prefetching, you can set the `prefetch` prop to `false`. But this will not skip the cache permanently, the route segment will still be cached client-side when the user visits the route.

Author: Simplified it 👍🏼

revalidateTag('a')
```

There are two places you can use `revalidateTag`, depending on what you're trying to achieve:

1. [Route Handlers](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/router-handlers) - to revalidate data in response of a third party event (e.g. webhook).
2. [Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions) - to revalidate data after a user action (e.g. form submission).

{/_ TO DO: Talk about how revalidateTag affects other caches and re-rendering.
If you're calling it from a route handler, then it makes sense if it's for next UI visit, but for server actions, the user would expect a visual update / rerender _/}

### `revalidatePath`

`revalidatePath` allows you manually revalidate data **and** re-render the route segments below a specific path in a single operation. Calling `revalidatePath` methods revalidate the Data Cache, which in turn invalidates the Full Route Cache. It does not immediately invalidate the Router Cache due to the [automatic invalidation period](#duration-and-invalidation).

```jsx
revalidatePath('/')
```

There are two places you can use `revalidatePath`, depending on what you're trying to achieve:

> 1. [Route Handlers](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/router-handlers) - to revalidate data in response of a third party event (e.g. webhook).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. [Route Handlers](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/router-handlers) - to revalidate data in response to a third party event (e.g. webhook).
```

> 2. [Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions) - to revalidate data after a user action (e.g. form submission).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. [Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions) - to revalidate data after a user interaction (e.g. form submission, clicking a button).
```

> > ** `revalidatePath` vs. `router.refresh`**:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> ** `revalidatePath` vs. `router.refresh()`**:
```

>
> Calling `router.refresh` will clear the Router cache, and re-render route segments on the server without invalidating the Data Cache or the Full Route Cache.
>

> > The difference is that `revalidatePath` **revalidates** cached data in Static Routes, whereas `router.refresh` **reuses** cached data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> The difference is that `revalidatePath` purges the Data Cache and Full Route Cache, whereas `router.refresh()` does not change the Data Cache and Full Route Cache, as it is a client-side API.
```

See the [`revalidatePath` API reference]() for more information.

> > **Differences between `res.revalidate` vs. `revalidateTag` / `revalidatePath`**:

Reviewer 3: I think this should not be explained as part of this document as it's a specific Pages Router API that only exists in `pages/api` and might feel complicated. I.e. "when do I use `res.revalidate` then?". Would be good to move this type of explanation to the upgrade guide for `pages` -> `app`

Author: Agreed, it was added because I've seen some issues where people were using it to try to invalidate the router cache, this was to clarify the res.revalidate is for API routes in `pages`. Thinking about it, we don't want to mention it, to not encourage people to follow any wrong patterns.

>
> There are a couple of differences between `res.revalidate` and `revalidateTag` / `revalidatePath`:
>
> 1. `res.revalidate` was built for API Routes in the Pages Router, when rendering and data fetching were coupled together in the same cache.
> 2. `res.revalidate` applies specifically to the Full Route Cache, and not the Data Cache or Router Cache.
> 3. `res.revalidate` returns a promise, whereas `revalidateTag` and `revalidatePath` are non-blocking, _fire-and-forget_ APIs.

### Dynamic Functions

> `cookies`, `headers`, `useSearchParams`, and `searchParams` are all dynamic functions that depend on runtime information. Using them will opt a route out of the Full Route Cache, in other words, the routes will be dynamically rendered.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`cookies`, `headers`, `useSearchParams`, and `searchParams` are all dynamic functions that depend on runtime incoming request information. Using them will opt a route out of the Full Route Cache, in other words, the route will be dynamically rendered as it needs incoming request information.
```

#### `cookies`

> Using `cookies.set` or `cookies.delete` in a Server Action invalidates the Router Cache to prevent routes that use cookies from becoming stale (e.g. authentication).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using `cookies.set` or `cookies.delete` in a Server Action invalidates the Router Cache to prevent routes that use cookies from becoming stale (e.g. to reflect authentication changes).
```

See the [`cookies`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cookies) API reference.

### Segment Config Options

> The Route Segment Config options can be used configure the caching behavior of _all_ fetch requests in a route segment. Although you can configure individual fetch requests, for multiple fetch requests, it's generally recommended to configure the cache and time-based revalidation at the route segment level - this prevents unexpected scenarios where `fetch` requests in the same segment revalidate at different times.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Route Segment Config options can be used configure the caching behavior of _all_ fetch requests in a route segment.
```

The recommendation is to provide a revalidate / no-store per-fetch, even when you have multiple fetches. Because server components can be composed removing one that has `no-store` should mean that the page can now be cached. That wouldn't be the case when you use the segment level config, as you'd have to remove it there as well then. The segment config exists for the case where you want to override the provided defaults or can't change the fetch, e.g. PlanetScale adds no-store to their SDK but if you know the page can be static you can use it to override.

Author: Great, thank you for clarifying it!

> The following Route Segment Config options will opt out of the Data and Full Route Cache:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following Route Segment Config options will opt out of the Data Cache and Full Route Cache:
```

- `const dynamic = force-dynamic`
- `const revalidate = 0`

See the [Route Segment Config](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config) documentation for more options.

### React `cache` function

> The React `cache` function allows you to memoize the return value of a function, allowing you to call the same function multiple times while only executing it once.
> 
> Next.js uses `cache` to deduplicate data requests when using `fetch`. But you can also use `cache` to manually deduplicate data requests for use cases when the `fetch` API is not suitable. For example, database clients, CMS clients, or GraphQL.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
React's `cache` function allows you to **memoize** the return value of a function, saving the result to memory. In React Server Components, the [`fetch` API](#fetch) uses an implementation similar to `cache` to **memoize** data requests using the same URL and options. This means you can call the same data in multiple components while only executing it once during a render pass of a React component tree.
```

Reviewer 3: The fetch() memoization is a React feature, not specific to Next.js

  const res = await fetch('https://...') // The result is cached
  return res.json()
}

// This function is called twice, but the result is only fetched once
const comments = await getProducts() // cache MISS

// The second call could be anywhere in your route
const comments = await getProducts() // cache HIT
```

```jsx filename="app/layout.js" switcher
async function getProducts() {
  const res = await fetch('https://...') // The result is cached
  return res.json()
}

// This function is called twice, but the result is only fetched once
const comments = await getProducts() // cache MISS

// The second call could be anywhere in your route
const comments = await getProducts() // cache HIT
```

<Image
  alt="Diagram showing how fetch memoization works during React rendering."
  srcLight="/docs/light/request-memoization.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/request-memoization.png"
  width="1600"
  height="742"
/>

The first time the request is called, it'll be a cache `MISS`, the function will be executed, and the data will be fetched from the Next.js [Data Cache](#data-cache) or your data store. Subsequent function calls will be a cache `HIT`, and the data will be returned from memory.

> > **Good to know**:

Reviewer 3: Missing mention that `POST` is not memoized by React.

```

```jsx filename="app/example.js" switcher
async function getItem() {
  // The `fetch` function is automatically memoized and the result is cached
  const res = await fetch('https://.../item/1')
  return res.json()
}

// This function is called twice, but only executed the first time
const item = await getItem() // cache MISS

// The second call could be anywhere in your route
const item = await getItem() // cache HIT
```

<Image
  alt="Diagram showing how fetch memoization works during React rendering."
  srcLight="/docs/light/request-memoization.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/request-memoization.png"
  width="1600"
  height="742"
/>

The first time the request is called, it'll be a cache `MISS`, the function will be executed, and the data will be fetched from the Next.js [Data Cache](#data-cache) or your data store and the result will be stored in memory. Subsequent function calls will be a cache `HIT`, and the data will be returned from memory without executing the function.

> **Good to know**:
>
> - Request memoization is a React feature, not a Next.js feature. It's included here to show how it interacts with the other caching mechanisms.

> > - Memoization only applies to the `GET` method in `fetch` requests.

Author: I think this applies to React's memoization, whereas `force-cache` affects the data cache. 

Fetch has two optimizations: 
- React memoization
- Next.js data caching

> - Memoization only applies to the React Component tree, this means:
>   - It applies to `fetch` requests in `generateMetadata`, `generateStaticParams`, Layouts, Pages, and other Server Components.
>   - It doesn't apply to `fetch` requests in Route Handlers as they are not a part of the React component tree.
> - For cases where `fetch` is not suitable (e.g. database clients, CMS clients, or GraphQL), you can use the [React `cache` function](#react-cache-function) to memoize functions.

### Duration

The cache lasts the lifetime of a server request until the React component tree has finished rendering.

### Revalidating

Since the memoization is not shared across server requests and only applies during rendering, there is no need to revalidate it.

### Opting out

To opt out of memoization in `fetch` requests, you can pass an `AbortController` `signal` to the request.

```js
const { signal } = new AbortController()
fetch(url, { signal })
```

> Since you manually opt into using the React `cache` function, there's no way to opt out.

Author: I think I'll just delete it, it's not that helpful.

By default, data requests that use `fetch` are **cached**. You can use the [`cache`](#fetch-optionscache) and [`next.revalidate`](#fetch-optionsnextrevalidate) options of `fetch` to configure the caching behavior.

> **Good to know**: In the browser, the `cache` option of `fetch` indicates how a request will interact with the browser's HTTP cache, with Next.js, the `cache` option indicates how a server-side request will interact with the servers Data Cache.

<Image
  alt="Diagram showing how cached and uncached fetch requests interact with the Data Cache. Cached requests are stored in the Data Cache, and memoized, uncached requests are fetched from the data source, not stored in the Data Cache, and memoized."
  srcLight="/docs/light/data-cache.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/data-cache.png"
  width="1600"
  height="679"
/>

The first time a `fetch` request is called during rendering, Next.js checks the Data Cache for a cached response. If a cached response is found, it's returned immediately and [memoized](#request-memoization). If not, the request is made to the data source, the result is stored in the Data Cache, and memoized.

> For uncached data (e.g. `{ cache: no store }`), the result is always fetched from the data source, and memoized.

Author: Yes, it's still memoized. Memoization happens during React rendering, as a way to share data between components during a render pass. Might be easier to think of it as a replacement for props drilling, you fetch the same data in multiple components, but only one request is sent to your data cache or data store.

 `no-store`, and the cache options of fetch apply to the Data Cache. I'll add a note to make this part clearer.

> **Differences between the Data Cache and Request Memoization**
>
> While both caching mechanisms help improve performance by re-using cached data, the Data Cache is persistent across incoming requests and deployments, whereas memoization only lasts the lifetime of a request.
>
> With memoization, we reduce the number of **duplicate** requests in the same render pass that have to cross the network boundary from the rendering server to the Data Cache server (e.g. a CDN or Edge Network) or data source (e.g. a database or CMS). With the Data Cache, we reduce the number of requests made to our origin data source.

### Duration

The Data Cache is persistent across incoming requests and deployments unless you revalidate or opt-out.

### Revalidating

Cached data can be revalidated in two ways, with:

> - **Time-based Revalidation**: Automatically revalidate data after a certain amount of time has passed. This is useful for data that changes infrequently and freshness is not as critical.

Reviewer 6: thought: I think the phrase `Automatically revalidate data after a certain amount of time has passed` is misleading. It again implies (to me) that no matter what, after the time has passed, data will be up-to-date in the cache, even if no request happened in that time frame, and that the next request after that timeframe will already receive fresh data.

It becomes clearer after reading the **How Time-based Revalidation Works**, especially:

> 3.  After the timeframe, the next request will still return the cached (now stale) data.
    - Next.js will trigger a revalidation of the data in the background.

But I think it would be better to clarify this up-front.

Author: Good point, I'll update it! 🙏🏼

  - **Statically Rendered**: 5 minutes

While a page refresh will clear **all** cached segments, the automatic invalidation period only affects the individual segment from the time it was last accessed or created.

By adding `prefetch={true}` or calling `router.prefetch` for a dynamically rendered route, you can opt into caching for 5 minutes.

### Invalidation

There are two ways you can invalidate the Router Cache:

- In a **Server Action**:
  - Revalidating data on-demand by path with ([`revalidatePath`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidatePath)) or by cache tag with ([`revalidateTag`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidateTag))
  - Using [`cookies.set`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cookies#cookiessetname-value-options) or [`cookies.delete`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cookies#deleting-cookies) invalidates the Router Cache to prevent routes that use cookies from becoming stale (e.g. authentication).
- Calling [`router.refresh`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-router) will invalidate the Router Cache and make a new request to the server for the current route.

### Opting out

It's not possible to opt out of the Router Cache.

> You can opt out of **prefetching** by setting the `prefetch` prop of the `<Link>` component to `false`. However, this will still temporarily store the route segments for 30s to allow instant navigation between nested segments, such as tab bars, or back and forward navigation. Visited routes will still be cached.

Reviewer 6: praise: thanks for documenting this behaviour 🙏 - it was a point of confusion when trying things out up until now.

thought: since we can't opt-out of the Router Cache, 30s seems to be the absolute minimum that a page will be cached in the Router Cache. While I agree that this is a good default, the fact that there is no way to change this is a bit concerning. I talked to Tim a while back and he mentioned that very likely, defining a `revalidate` time on a route segment that is _below_ 30s would also lower the caching time for the Router Cache. Was this idea discarded ?

Learn more about the [`<Link>` component](/docs/app/api-reference/components/link).

### `router.prefetch`

The `prefetch` option of the `useRouter` hook can be used to manually prefetch a route. This adds the React Server Component Payload to the Router Cache.

See the [`useRouter` hook](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-router) API reference.

### `router.refresh`

The `refresh` option of the `useRouter` hook can be used to manually refresh a route. This completely clears the Router Cache, and makes a new request to the server for the current route. `refresh` does not affect the Data or Full Route Cache.

The rendered result will be reconciled on the client while preserving React state and browser state.

See the [`useRouter` hook](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-router) API reference.

### `fetch`

Data returned from `fetch` is automatically cached in the Data Cache.

```jsx
// Cached by default. `force-cache` is the default option and can be ommitted.
fetch(`https://...`, { cache: 'force-cache' })
```

See the [`fetch` API Reference](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/fetch) for more options.

### `fetch options.cache`

> You can opt individual `fetch` requests out of data caching by setting the `cache` option to `no-store`:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
You can opt out individual `fetch` requests of data caching by setting the `cache` option to `no-store`:
```

```jsx
revalidatePath('/')
```

There are two places you can use `revalidatePath`, depending on what you're trying to achieve:

1. [Route Handlers](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/route-handlers) - to revalidate data in response to a third party event (e.g. webhook).
2. [Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions) - to revalidate data after a user interaction (e.g. form submission, clicking a button).

See the [`revalidatePath` API reference](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidatePath) for more information.

> ** `revalidatePath` vs. `router.refresh`**:
>
> Calling `router.refresh` will clear the Router cache, and re-render route segments on the server without invalidating the Data Cache or the Full Route Cache.
>
> The difference is that `revalidatePath` purges the Data Cache and Full Route Cache, whereas `router.refresh()` does not change the Data Cache and Full Route Cache, as it is a client-side API.

### Dynamic Functions

> `cookies`, `headers`, `useSearchParams`, and `searchParams` are all dynamic functions that depend on runtime incoming request information. Using them will opt a route out of the Full Route Cache, in other words, the route will be dynamically rendered.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
`cookies`, `headers`, `useSearchParams`, and `searchParams` are all dynamic functions that depend on runtime incoming request information. Using them will opt out a route of the Full Route Cache, in other words, the route will be dynamically rendered.
```

#### `cookies`

Using `cookies.set` or `cookies.delete` in a Server Action invalidates the Router Cache to prevent routes that use cookies from becoming stale (e.g. to reflect authentication changes).

See the [`cookies`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cookies) API reference.

### Segment Config Options

The Route Segment Config options can be used override the route segment defaults or when you're not able to use the `fetch` API (e.g. database client or 3rd party libraries).

The following Route Segment Config options will opt out of the Data Cache and Full Route Cache:

> - `const dynamic = force-dynamic`

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- `const dynamic = 'force-dynamic'`
```
